Django reCAPTCHA
================
**Django reCAPTCHA form field/widget integration app.**

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha.svg?branch=develop
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha

.. contents:: Contents
    :depth: 5

Django reCAPTCHA uses a modified version of the `Python reCAPTCHA client
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ which is included in the
package as ``client.py``.


Requirements
------------

Tested with:

* Python: 2.7, 3.5
* Django: 1.11, 2.0

Installation
------------

#. `Sign up for reCAPTCHA <https://www.google.com/recaptcha/intro/index.html>`_.

#. Install with ``pip install django-recaptcha``.

#. Add ``'captcha'`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting.

#. Add the keys reCAPTCHA have given you to your Django production settings (leave development settings blank to use the default test keys) as
   ``RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY`` and ``RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY``. For example:

   .. code-block:: python

       RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY = 'MyRecaptchaKey123'
       RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY = 'MyRecaptchaPrivateKey456'

   These can also be specificied per field by passing the ``public_key`` or
   ``private_key`` parameters to ``ReCaptchaField`` - see field usage below.

#. If you would like to use the new No Captcha reCaptcha also known as reCaptcha v2 add the setting
   ``NOCAPTCHA = True``. For example:

   .. code-block:: python

       NOCAPTCHA = True

   Note that Google will disable/disabled reCaptcha v1 on 2018-03-31. So after that date NOCAPTCHA will be default option.
   To use older **not supported** version you have to explicity define:

   .. code-block:: python

       NOCAPTCHA = False

#. If you require a proxy, add a ``RECAPTCHA_PROXY`` setting, for example:

   .. code-block:: python

       RECAPTCHA_PROXY = 'http://127.0.0.1:8000'

Usage
-----

Field
~~~~~

The quickest way to add reCAPTCHA to a form is to use the included
``ReCaptchaField`` field class. A ``ReCaptcha`` widget will be rendered with
the field validating itself without any further action required. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from django import forms
    from captcha.fields import ReCaptchaField

    class FormWithCaptcha(forms.Form):
        captcha = ReCaptchaField()

To allow for runtime specification of keys you can optionally pass the
``private_key`` or ``public_key`` parameters to the constructor. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(
        public_key='76wtgdfsjhsydt7r5FFGFhgsdfytd656sad75fgh',
        private_key='98dfg6df7g56df6gdfgdfg65JHJH656565GFGFGs',
    )

If specified these parameters will be used instead of your reCAPTCHA project
settings.

The reCAPTCHA widget supports several `Javascript options variables
<https://developers.google.com/recaptcha/docs/display#js_param>`_ that
customize the behaviour of the widget, such as ``theme`` and ``lang``. You can
forward these options to the widget by passing an ``attr`` parameter to the
field, containing a dictionary of options. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(attrs={
      'theme' : 'clean',
    })

The client takes the key/value pairs and writes out the ``RecaptchaOptions``
value in JavaScript.


Local Development and Functional Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Google provides test keys which are set as the default for ``RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY`` and ``RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY``. These cannot be used in production since they always validate to true and a warning will be shown on the reCAPTCHA.


Unit Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django reCAPTCHA introduces an environment variable ``RECAPTCHA_TESTING`` which
helps facilitate tests. The environment variable should be set to ``"True"``,
and cleared, using the ``setUp()`` and ``tearDown()`` methods in your test
classes.

Setting ``RECAPTCHA_TESTING`` to ``True`` causes Django reCAPTCHA to accept
``"PASSED"`` as the ``recaptcha_response_field`` value. Note that if you are
using the new No Captcha reCaptcha (ie. with ``NOCAPTCHA = True`` in your
settings) the response field is called ``g-recaptcha-response``.

Example:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'True'

    form_params = {'recaptcha_response_field': 'PASSED'} # use 'g-recaptcha-response' param name if using NOCAPTCHA
    form = RegistrationForm(form_params) # assuming only one ReCaptchaField
    form.is_valid() # True

    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'False'
    form.is_valid() # False

Passing any other values will cause Django reCAPTCHA to continue normal
processing and return a form error.

Check ``tests.py`` for a full example.


AJAX
~~~~~

To make reCAPTCHA work in ajax-loaded forms:

#. Import ``recaptcha_ajax.js`` on your page (not in the loaded template):

   .. code-block:: html

       <script type="text/javascript" src="http://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/js/recaptcha_ajax.js"></script>

#. Add to your Django settings:

   .. code-block:: python

       CAPTCHA_AJAX = True


Disabling SSL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This library used to not use SSL by default, but now it does. You can disable
this if required, but you should think long and hard about it before you do so!

You can disable it by setting ``RECAPTCHA_USE_SSL = False`` in your Django
settings, or by passing ``use_ssl=False`` to the constructor of
``ReCaptchaField``.


Credits
-------
Inspired Marco Fucci's blogpost titled `Integrating reCAPTCHA with Django
<http://www.marcofucci.com/tumblelog/26/jul/2009/integrating-recaptcha-with-django>`_


``client.py`` taken from `recaptcha-client
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ licenced MIT/X11 by Mike
Crawford.

reCAPTCHA copyright 2012 Google.
